# Lead Score Prediction

This is a team project consisting of Ms. Lakshita Sethi, Ms. Angel Philip and myself. The project is implemented using R programming language. Lead Score Prediction is a rather hot topic in many fields especially in the field of Sales and Marketing. Lead scores are used in order to improve sales, improvise strategies of marketing and so on. A lead is a potential client. Once a lead is gained, it is the role of the company to follow up on these leads in order to convert them from being a potential client into a client. There are various ways in which this is done. The company can make calls, emails and even place more advertisements to the lead. One must keep in mind that all of this bear costs. If blind and naïve efforts are taken in order to convert a lead into a client, sometimes it may lead to loss for the company. This is because not all leads are converted to clients. One of the ways in which loss can be prevented is to make efforts only to targeted leads. In this way, efforts are streamlined to fewer leads with a greater conversion rate.
The targeted clients are the ones with a higher lead score. Lead score in turn is the score assigned to each lead on the basis of various factors and their behaviour in relation to their interest levels in the services or products offered. These factors and behaviours are predetermined by the company in order to assess the lead scores. Generally, the lead score ranges from zero to hundred, both inclusive. Lower scored leads are termed as ‘cold leads’ while higher scored leads are termed as ‘hot leads’.
The data collected for the purpose of this project is of a sample company called ‘X Education’. This company is basically a marketplace for courses targeted at industrial professionals. The company markets its courses on various search engines and social media platforms. The current conversion rate of X Education is thirty percent. This means that of all the leads gained, only thirty percent of them are getting converted into clients, in turn meaning that seventy percent of the leads were not converted to clients. One can see the proportion of wasted efforts in this situation. If the company continues with these numbers, it could be deleterious to the financial state of the company. The aim of this project is to identify target hot leads and thereby increase the conversion rate of the company while streamlining their efforts.

## Problem Statement
- To build a model to predict lead scores.
- To build a model to classify leads as either a ‘hot’ or ‘cold’ lead.
- To increase the efficiency of the company by allowing them to recognise higher potential leads and in so doing streamline efforts for greater returns.

## About the Data 
The dataset used for this project is termed as “Lead Scoring” and was sourced from Kaggle. [Link for the same - https://www.kaggle.com/code/ashydv/lead-scoring-logistic-regression/notebook]
The data contains 9240 rows and has 37 variables. Of the 37 variables, 31 of them are categorical in nature while the remaining 6 variables are either discrete or continuous in nature. The basic idea behind the variables is the source of the leads, origin of leads, activity on the website, country, specialization, tags and scores. The variable of most interest in this dataset is Converted. This variable contains 0 for leads that were not converted into clients and 1 for leads that were converted.

## Methodology
- The acquired data was cleaned and modified to suit our needs. 
- Some basic Exploratory Data Analysis was then done on this cleaned and pre-processed data. 
- For the purpose of predicting the Lead Score, a Multiple Regression Model was used. Multiple regression is a statistical technique that can be used to analyse the relationship between a single dependent variable and several independent variables. In terms of this project, the objective was to predict the values of a Lead Score variable, which will represent the chances of that lead being converted to a client.
- For the purpose of classifying the leads into 'hot' and 'cold', Logisitc Regression Model was used. This type of statistical model (also known as logit model) is often used for classification and predictive analytics. Logistic regression estimates the probability of an event occurring, such as voted or didn’t vote, based on a given dataset of independent variables. Since the outcome is a probability, the dependent variable is bounded between 0 and 1.
- In order to evaluate the performance of the Logistic Regression Model, an ROC curve was used. ROC curve, also known as Receiver Operating Characteristics Curve, is a metric used to measure the performance of a classifier model. The ROC curve depicts the rate of true positives with respect to the rate of false positives, therefore highlighting the sensitivity of the classifier model. An ideal classifier will have a ROC where the graph would hit a true positive rate of 100% with zero false positives. The ROC curve plotted for our model gives a value of 0.9089 and we can conclude that our classifier is an ideal one, since the curve would approximate hit the 100% true positive rate with zero false positives.

## Conclusion

- Focussing more on social media advertisements, since we get most of the unemployed crowd there, would be a good decision.
- Not putting too much efforts in the irrelevant advertisements, because we have very a smaller number of visits of converted people there.
- People who are actually interested in getting a job, will do organic search and hence have high chances of becoming a part of our company.
